REL 222 Writing Assignment
To meet the writing requirement of this course, give a four-page summary and response to the following two readings in our textbooks. (Each of your papers will be due at different times [see below] and will be worth 25% of your course grade, for a total of 50%.)
R. Alan Culpepper, chapter 10, “The Gospel of John as a Document of Faith,” pages 287–305 in The Gospel and Letters of John
Sandra R. Schneiders, chapter 6, “Women in the Fourth Gospel,” pages 93–114 in Written That You May Believe: Encountering Jesus in the Fourth Gospel
Steps to Follow in Meeting the Assignment
1.	In a paragraph or two, give a broad summary of the reading. 
2.	Then focus on and summarize part of the reading.
a.	For the Culpepper reading, focus on the section entitled “The Ethical Challenge” (pp. 291–302) and on the final, shorter section titled “A Hermeneutics of Ethical Accountability” (pp. 303–305), which sets forth Culpepper’s position on how the ethical challenge of the Fourth Gospel should be approached.
b.	For the Schneiders reading, focus on pages 93–96, 98–101 (introduction and general reflections on women) and 113–114 (summary and conclusions). Along the way, give some attention to one of the women in John (either the mother of Jesus, 96–98; the Samaritan woman, 101–104; Mary and Martha, 104–110; or Mary Magdalene, 110–113).
3.	Give the focus section(s) a more detailed summary than your general summary. Altogether, your summary should take up no more than two pages (double-spaced) of the paper.
4.	Then in about two pages respond to the section(s) in one or more of the ways outlined below.
Ways of Responding to the Readings
You can respond to the readings in one or more of the following ways (preferably more than one). (These ways are not meant to be exhaustive, so feel free to approach the reflection part of the paper in other ways as well.)
•	Discuss any statements in the reading(s) that you find particularly interesting.
•	Discuss statements in the readings(s) that you find problematic because they go against your (or a “traditional”) understanding of the Bible.
•	Discuss any statements that you are not sure you agree with, unless you could see more evidence and argumentation.
•	Discuss statements that strike you as being particularly relevant to Christian faith and life today, including, if you wish, your Christian faith and life.  CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE
Submitting Your Paper
1.	Do the Schneiders paper first. Email it to me as an attachment in Microsoft Word by or before Friday, April 3. If for some reason you are unable to submit it as a MS-Word document, send it in pdf.
2.	Submit the Culpepper paper by or before Friday, April 17. Submit it in the same manner described above.
3.	IMPORTANT: When you email each of the papers, please have the subject heading in your email look like this:
REL 222 Schneiders paper
REL 222 Culpepper paper

Good luck!
